br refactor (3): translate use cases, faq, increment br, monitor, batch create, and auto tune (#11379)
pingcap/docs: br/backup-and-restore-use-cases.md

---
title: TiDB Backup and Restore Use Cases
summary: Learn the use cases of backing up and restoring data using br command-line tool.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/br/backup-and-restore-use-cases/','/docs/dev/reference/tools/br/use-cases/','/tidb/dev/backup-and-restore-use-cases-for-maintain/']
---

# TiDB Backup and Restore Use Cases

[TiDB Snapshot Backup and Restore Guide](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md) and [TiDB Log Backup and PITR Guide](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) introduce the backup and restore solutions provided by TiDB, namely, snapshot (full) backup and restore, log backup and point-in-time recovery (PITR). This document helps you to quickly get started with the backup and restore solutions of TiDB in specific use cases.

> Assume that you have deployed a TiDB production cluster on AWS and the business team puts forward the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that you have deployed a TiDB production cluster on AWS and the business team request the following requirements:
```

> - Back up the data changes in a timely manner. When the database encounters an error, you can quickly recover the application data with minimal data loss (only a few minutes of data loss is tolerable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Back up the data changes in a timely manner. When the database encounters a disaster, you can quickly recover the application data with minimal data loss (only a few minutes of data loss is tolerable).
```

> - Perform business audits every month at no specific time. When an audit request is received, you must provide a database to query the data at a certain time point in the past month as requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Perform business audits every month at no specific time. When an audit request is received, you must provide a database to query the data at a certain time point of the past month as requested.
```

With PITR, you can satisfy the preceding requirements.

## Deploy the TiDB cluster and br command-line tool

> To use PITR, you need to deploy a TiDB cluster >= v6.2.0 and update br command-line tool to the same version as the TiDB cluster. This document uses v6.4.0 as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use PITR, you need to deploy a TiDB cluster >= v6.4.0 and update br command-line tool to the same version as the TiDB cluster. This document uses v6.4.0 as an example.
```

The following table shows the recommended hardware resources for using PITR in a TiDB cluster.

| Component | CPU | Memory | Disk | AWS instance  | Number of instances |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TiDB | 8 core+ | 16 GB+ | SAS | c5.2xlarge | 2 |
| PD | 8 core+ | 16 GB+ | SSD | c5.2xlarge | 3 |
| TiKV | 8 core+ | 32 GB+ | SSD | m5.2xlarge | 3 |
| br command-line tool | 8 core+ | 16 GB+ | SAS | c5.2xlarge | 1 |
| Monitor | 8 core+ | 16 GB+ | SAS | c5.2xlarge | 1 |

> **Note:**
>
> - When br tool runs the backup and restore tasks, it needs to access PD and TiKV. Make sure that br tool can connect to all PD and TiKV nodes.
> - br tool and PD servers must use the same time zone.

Deploy or upgrade a TiDB cluster using TiUP:

- To deploy a new TiDB cluster, refer to [Deploy a TiDB cluster](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md).

> - If the TiDB cluster is earlier than v6.2.0, upgrade it by referring to [Upgrade a TiDB cluster](/upgrade-tidb-using-tiup.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the TiDB cluster is earlier than v6.4.0, upgrade it by referring to [Upgrade a TiDB cluster](/upgrade-tidb-using-tiup.md).
```

Install or upgrade br tool using TiUP:

- Install:

    ```shell
    tiup install br:v6.4.0
    ```

- Upgrade:

    ```shell
    tiup update br:v6.4.0
    ```

## Configure backup storage (Amazon S3)

Before you start a backup task, prepare the backup storage, including the following aspects:

1. Prepare the S3 bucket and directory that stores the backup data.
2. Configure the permissions to access the S3 bucket.

> 3. Plan the directory that stores the backup data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Plan the subdirectory that stores each backup data.
```

--storage='s3://tidb-pitr-bucket/backup-data/log-backup'
```

When the log backup task is running, you can query the backup status:

```shell
tiup br log status --task-name=pitr --pd="${PD_IP}:2379"

● Total 1 Tasks.
> #1 <
    name: pitr
    status: ● NORMAL
    start: 2022-05-13 11:09:40.7 +0800
      end: 2035-01-01 00:00:00 +0800
    storage: s3://tidb-pitr-bucket/backup-data/log-backup
    speed(est.): 0.00 ops/s
checkpoint[global]: 2022-05-13 11:31:47.2 +0800; gap=4m53s
```

## Run snapshot backup

You can run snapshot backup tasks on a regular basis using an automatic tool such as crontab. For example, run a snapshot backup at 00:00 every two days.

The following are two snapshot backup examples:

- Run a snapshot backup at 2022/05/14 00:00:00

    ```shell
    tiup br backup full --pd="${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --storage='s3://tidb-pitr-bucket/backup-data/snapshot-20220514000000' \
    --backupts='2022/05/14 00:00:00'
    ```

- Run a snapshot backup at 2022/05/16 00:00:00

    ```shell
    tiup br backup full --pd="${PD_IP}:2379" \
    --storage='s3://tidb-pitr-bucket/backup-data/snapshot-20220516000000' \
    --backupts='2022/05/16 00:00:00'
    ```

## Run PITR

> Assume that you need to query the data at 2022/05/15 18:00:00. You can use PITR to restore a cluster to that timestamp by restoring a snapshot backup taken at 2022/05/14 and a log backup between the snapshot and 2022/05/15 18:00:00.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that you need to query the data at 2022/05/15 18:00:00. You can use PITR to restore a cluster to that time point by restoring a snapshot backup taken at 2022/05/14 and the log backup data between the snapshot and 2022/05/15 18:00:00.
```
